And so,
I know that we've gone through all this.
And some of you might be thinking, well,
who builds web apps this way, right?
Because after all, every sort of modern
text that you'll see always talks about
build tools and that kind of thing.
And to be honest, progressive enhancement
is very much a thing that continues to
exist to this day, even though it's
not talked about a lot, right?
Code rewrites are very sexy.
But the truth is when you're dealing
with enterprise systems, it's just not
realistic to stop everything, as we talked
about before, and write new features.
But dropping in the CDN with Vue,
having it progressively enhance.
That all works.
We're not gonna cover it at this
point because we're going to move
into build tools, but
a lot of these things we're seeing here,
they can be just abstracted
into .js files, right?
You can actually modularize your code,
you can do a lot actually, and
make a fairly robust app.
It doesn't have to all live inside of this
single object that I've shown you all,
that's just a way for
us to keep it all as a mental model.
But eventually you can break it out,
import JS into here,
it can still scale pretty darn well.
And so this image here,
which I love, it's like the cake,
that then you get the frosting,
then you get the candles, right?
And so the credit here is Tiffany Tse,
this is her blog post on
What is Progressive Enhancement and
Why Should You Care?
So definitely something that I do think
modern web developers need to consider
when it comes to the realities
of upgrading their code base.
And so this is a smashing article
magazine by Sarah Dresner,
who used to be on the Vue core team.
And this is a great one because the title
of this is Replacing jQuery with Vue.js,
No Build Step Necessary.
And this is also a very
valid way of using Vue.
It's like, if you know that only one
page in your entire app because you're
statically generating it so
that everything's on the server side, but
only one could use some interactivity.
Don't even need jQuery anymore,
you could literally just drop Vue,
because I believe the CDN side is either
roughly the same, if Vue is not slightly
lower at this point, but
that is actually a viable option now.
You don't need to even approach Vue as
a framework, it can be just little bits of
interactivity that are sprinkled in and
out.
And finally, again,
people are always skeptical.
They're like, well,
who's actually done it this way?
Well, GitLab did it this way.
GitLab used to actually
be a Ruby on Rails app.
It was if anyone's worked with Ruby
on Rails, you know that, especially
back then integrating node-based tool
chains into that was extremely painful.
Again, and
also they needed to ship features, right?
And this was before they went public.
They had customers they needed
to meet their needs, so
they couldn't stop everything and
go, yeah, Rails is kind of outdated.
We really would love to use the framework,
so let's stop building stuff.
They couldn't do that.
So what did they do?
I'm trying to remember
actually which page it was.
I knew someone who was on
the team that did this.
Let's just, for example,
they had the sign in page.
And they said on the sign in page,
let's add Vue as a CDN,
and let's just add interactivity.
And once they proved that that worked
well, they went, okay, next one, what's
something we can hit that's fairly low
impact performance wise that we can do?
I think there was another one that they
did, and basically that's what they did.
They slowly added new features to
the customer base while progressively
migrating their app to Vue.
And then eventually when they had,
basically, the tipping point of,
they had so much code in Vue that it made
sense to like, let's take a couple of
weeks to refactor our code to actually
use the node tooling to bring it all in.
That's when they actually did that.
But they proved their case rather than
trying to just tell product, hey,
just stop.
We have this wonderful idea that if anyone
has done ever a massive app refactoring,
it often doesn't go quite as planned.
And then deadlines get pushed, but
they were able to realistic do that.
And so this is how GitLab
is now running on Vue now.
And so the reason I wanted to emphasize
this method is because it's something that
I think is often overlooked when people
are thinking about recommending solutions
to clients.
And it's something that I
want people to know about.
So whenever you're working for someone or
you think that this could be a good
approach, you now know
that this is here for you.